RAHUL M PALLIYALIL 
29 Holywell Close, Orpington, BR6 9XP 
✉ rahulmp.87@gmail.com 
☎ 07446933210 
Summary 
● Software engineer with 7 years of golang experience 
● Technologies:  Golang, AWS, Kubernetes, Terraform, Devops, Kafka, Lambda, Graphql, 
Grpc, REST, Postgresql, Mongo 
● AWS certified solution architect 
● Azure cloud adoption framework (CAF) terraform open source contributor 
https://github.com/aztfmod/terraform-azurerm-caf 
Work Experience 
Curve:  Backend Engineer (Contract)  
(Jan 2024 – Till Date)  
● Technologies - Golang, AWS, Kubernetes, REST, Graphql, Grpc 
● Curve is a digital wallet that connects all funding cards into a single debit card 
● Working as a part of the curve onboarding product selector team , contributing to the 
development and release of new Curve app versions. 
● Developed various key features in golang including the introduction of the cooling off period 
concept for new Curve accounts, enabling in app downgrades for users , applying voucher based 
discounts for selected products, cards as an accessory etc 
● Architecting and refactoring microservices to facilitate a graceful migration from product 
selection version 1 to version 2 and finally to version 3 for both stripe and manual billing 
customers.  
● Migrating golang microservices that retrieve data using complex rego expressions to mongo 
● Being part of the support rota to fix production bugs based on priority.  
Hackathons Participated: 
● AI Based Merchant Recommendations - Participated in a company wide hackathon to 
recommend shopping preferences based on user transactions and won 3rd place.  
Shell:  Senior Software Engineer (Contract)  
(Oct 2022 – Dec 2023)  
● Technologies - Golang, Java, AWS, Kubernetes, Terraform, Devops, Kafka, Lambda, Graphql, 
REST, Postgresql, Mongo 
● Working as a part of the shell charge works fleet team for clients such as Amazon. 
● Writing microservices, lambda to consume telemetry from kafka, sqs queues , enriching the data 
and publish enriched data to kafka 
● Wrote graphql layer (including federation layer), auth workflow , subgraphs for the telematics api 
● Configuring argocd, gitlab pipelines, dockerfiles and  helm charts for deploying services to 
kubernetes and also to serverless world.  
● Experience with databases such as postgres and mongo. 
● Implementing service tests (godog) in golang and also extending the tests for the legacy services 
written in Java. 
Office for National Statistics (ONS):  Senior SC Cleared Software Engineer 
(Contract)  
(Dec 2021 – Oct 2022)  
● Technologies - Golang, AWS, Kubernetes, Devops, Elasticsearch, Terraform, Kafka 
● Greenfield development of different microservices in golang which communicate to each other 
via kafka. 
● Wrote a golang template for a clean architecture pattern, so that the team can use it as a baseline 
for the creation of new microservices.  
● Part of ONS backend publishing team 
● Writing facade for elasticsearch and working with the elastic analytics and search engine 
● Wrote different templates for elastic search queries for efficient retrieval of the documents stored 
in the search engine. 
● Configuring service level test framework in golang. 
● Enhancing and bug fixing for the legacy applications written in Java 
● Working with data driven templates written in golang.  
Atos,Wokingham: Senior Software Engineer (Contract)  
(Apr 2021 – Dec 2021)  
● Part of Atos backend development team 
Backend Development: 
● Part of the portal backend team and leading portal backend development  
● Writing different microservices in Golang following clean architecture patterns 
● Writing RESTful apis, middlewares and focussing on test driven development  
● Creating and maintaining OpenApi definitions ,documentations using stoplight 
● Configuring service level test framework in go 
● Building, testing and deploying to Azure kubernetes services (AKS) 
Devops And Architecture: 
● Being part of different architecture discussions across azure  
● Written and contributed to the company adopted azure enterprise scale caf framework including 
the landingzone and modules. 
● Written terraform to configure apim, function app, frontdoor, app gateway, cdn, database 
configuration etc  
● Configured helm charts for packaging and argocd for deploying resources to kubernetes 
following an app of apps approach.  
CognitoiQ, Newbury: Senior Software Engineer  
(Feb 2020 – Apr 2021)  
● Part of CognitoiQ’s platform development team 
● Working for different projects ranging from field services to logistics 
Backend Development: 
● Architecting and writing different lambda functions in Golang following the clean architecture 
pattern for different projects 
● Building, testing and deploying to AWS serverless world 
● Writing behavior driven and integration tests in golang using docker containers 
● Using Aurora serverless with MySQL and DynamoDB  for persistence 
● Designing databases using star schema data warehousing architecture model  
● Configuring RESTful apis via AWS api gateway 
● Pairing and mentoring junior team members, organizing and running company-wide backend 
guild  
Devops Role: 
● Using terraform to quickly write and deploy different AWS resources including SES 
configurations, AWS secret manager , code pipelines, enabling VPC flow logs, setting up of VPC 
peering , AWS data migration service  etc 
● Using AWS Cognito for authentication and authorisation 
● Configuring a generic lift and shift template written in python to support golang clean layered 
architecture. 
Certifications: 
● During my time at CognitoiQ, I also managed to get the AWS Certified Solutions Architect 
certification.  
Personal Projects: 
● Written a structured logging facade that uses standard logging library (eg zerolog, logrus) under 
the hood 
● Written a golang middleware library that can be used to set request ids, perform token validation 
etc before reaching the target lambda 
● Written a distributed tracing facade which uses opencensus and with different backend exporters 
Kaluza (OVO Energy), London: Software Engineer 
(Nov 2019 –Feb 2020)  
● Part of Kaluza’s device integration team, integrating various devices to the grid 
● Written Golang micro services to ingest and enrich telemetries and collect data.   
● Test driven development using testify Mock, GoMock etc.  
● Knowledge and experience working on Google cloud infrastructure 
● Using datastore, elastic and storage buckets for persistence. 
● Configured Logstash to pick up the events from Kafka, filter and push to ES 
● Initiating communication between services using Kafka 
● Configured modules, ACL for topics etc using terraform  
● Written tests using frameworks such as GoDog, Gock ,etc 
● configuring monitoring and alerting tool like Prometheus and configuring Graphana dashboards.  
On the Dot, London: Backend Engineer 
(Apr 2019 – Nov 2019)  
● Supporting and maintaining On the Dot’s store to door delivery platform  
● Written Golang micro services to initiate order booking, determine capacity in region for a 
specific order etc.  
● Emphasizing on clean architecture like Layered, Hexagonal etc and test driven development 
● Knowledge and experience working on AWS infrastructure 
● Using dynamoDB and s3 buckets for persistence. 
● Initiating communication between services using AWS SNS and SQS. 
● Experience with git version control. 
● Experience writing service level tests and acceptance tests 
● Experience with logging dashboard like Humio and tracing with Opensensus.  
● Writing and improving on Restful apis, using Swagger for api definitions.  
Schlumberger, Abingdon: Software Engineer (Full Stack) 
(2016 – Apr 2019)  
Backend stack: 
● Written Golang micro services for gathering data, running simulations and run calculations.  
● Configuring and Deploying services to GCP 
● A mix of both Choreography and Orchestration architecture is used.  
● Focussing on test driven development and go clean architecture 
● Taking part in team software development architecture meetings. 
● Developing and Maintaining  Restful apis (inc. use of swagger) 
● Experience writing microservices for Google cloud platform 
● Experience with Google PubSub messaging service 
● Experience with Google protocol buffers, storage FUSE. 
● Using  Google datastore and storage buckets for persistence 
● Experience with docker and kubernetes 
● Experience with git version control. 
● Experience with other technologies like node, websockets 
● Experience writing gauge api tests 
Frontend stack: 
● Experience in writing angular 6 typescript front end applications 
● Experience with jasmine testing framework with karma test runner 
● Focussing on test driven development 
Devops: 
● Creating groovy tasks for gradle build 
● Running static code and dynamic api scans for different microservices 
● Knowledge and experience in configuring builds on gocd  and vsts pipelines 
Security: 
● Knowledge and experience in implementing oauth2 protocol 
Hackathons Participated: 
● Let’s Monkey About - Injecting chaos into a running kubernetes cluster and monitoring the 
performance , load balancing, finding possible solutions etc.  
● Go Delve Debugging - Debugging multiple docker go containers, which communicate via 
pubsub and REST. 
● License Dashboard - Dashboard service created in Angular 2 that displays licensing information. 
Schlumberger, Abingdon: Build and Release (Baseline) Engineer 
(Dec 2013 – 2016)  
Roles Include: 
● Experience with cross platform continuous integration and delivery tools 
● Configuring builds via continuous integration tool TeamCity, Microsoft TFS 
● Writing Automated scripts mainly in python 
● Deploying to Google cloud platform /Google app engine via Maven and gcloud. 
● Running simulations on Microsoft Azure cloud.  
● Maintaining and Supporting Perforce version control system 
● Working on both windows and linux environment 
● Experience with build tools like Make, CMake, Ant, Maven and SBT(Simple Build Tool) 
● Maintaining and supporting Teamcity Build scripts in python, MSBuild 
● Configuring customized reports via Report Builder 
● Working with SQL Server Management Studio 
● Technical analysis with large clients which involves running meetings on a regular basis 
● Sending out Technical review status mail to teams and clients 
● Follow up on actions based on Technical review meeting 
● Running tests suits and making sure these are ready for release 
● Configuring and Running tests on Microsoft Azure cloud, CentOS 
● Experience working in automated deployment environment 
● Updating status via Microsoft TFS 
● Experience with Microsoft Visual Studio 
● Experience with developing a Mean app with Angular2.0 Typescript 
● Experience with using MongoDB as a part of the MEAN stack. 
● Testing and Adding different tests to Perforce 
● Personal Project  Validation code in C++ 
Achievements: 
● Deployed simple Spring mvc web api to Google app engine 
● Written fully automated build script in python for library publish 
● Configured tests to be submitted and run from cloud  
● Presentations, Webinars and articles on various topics such as Continuous integration, code 
reviews via crucible  
● Experience working with automating deployments 
● Written python scripts to enhance build performance 
Markit, London: Associate Build Engineer 
(May 2013– Sep 2013) 
Roles Include: 
● Maintaining Buildbot and configuring builders using python programming 
● Writing build scripts in python 
● Personally responsible for ensuring all the builds are green 
● Experience with GNU make. 
● Maintaining Perforce Version Management System, carried out an upgrade to latest 2013.1 
perforce service 
● Creating various perforce triggers to do pre-commit check on specific files 
● Converting perl scripts to python 
● Basics of Bash Scripting 
MyDrive Solutions, Guildford: Graduate Software Engineer 
(Nov 2012 – Mar 2013) 
Roles Include: 
● Working within Ruby on Rails and Sinatra web framework 
● Writing and Fixing Rails RSpec tests cases. 
● Test Driven Development 
● Using RStudio to generate plots and graphs based on data through csv. 
● Data analysis on research projects. 
● Creating a visualisation tool for checking efficiency. 
● Committing changes to Github. 
Educational Qualification 
Cardiff Metropolitan University, UK: MBA, International business – 2:1 
Mahatma Gandhi University, India: B Tech, Computer Science & Engineering – 2:1 
Certifications 
AWS Certified solutions Architect - Associate